# Exercise 2

### The address space

1. Compile and run `aspace.c` in this directory.

2. Read the code.  You might want to [read about malloc here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_malloc.htm).

3. Based on the output, draw a sketch of the virtual address space (see page 80 of HFC).  Show the relative locations of the stack, heap, globals, constants, and code.

4. Add a second call to `malloc` and check whether the heap on your system grows up (toward larger addresses).  

ANSWER: I observed that the heap grew up, which was indicated by the fact that the second malloc's address was higher than the first.

5. Add a function that prints the address of a local variable, and check whether the stack grows down.  

ANSWER: I observed that the stack grew down, which was indicated by the fact that the address of the local variable in my function was below the address of the local variable in the main function.

6. Choose a random number between 1 and 32, and allocate two chunks with that size.  
How much space is there between them?  Hint: Google knows how to subtract hexadecimal numbers.

ANSWER: When I allocated two chunks of 11 bytes, the chunks were 20 bytes apart.

### Stack allocated data

1.  Read `stack.c`, which should be in this directory.  What is it
intended to do?  What would the output be if the program worked as
expected?

ANSWER: The code is supposed to create an integer array of 5 elements, and set each element to 42. Then it is supposed to print out every element in the array, so the expected output should be:

42
42
42
42
42

2.  Compile it.  Do you get a warning?  What does it mean?

ANSWER: I got a warning that my function returns the address of a local variable, because I tried to return the address of array, which is a local variable in foo. This is a problem because after this function executes, the variable no longer exists.

3.  Run it.  What happens?  You might get a segmentation fault, or you might get
some strange output.  Can you explain it?  You might find it
helpful to draw a stack diagram.

ANSWER: I got a segmentation fault, because there is a type mismatch. In the main function, array is a variable of type int*, and we try to set it to the result of foo(), which is a null, because foo is trying to return the pointer of a local variable.

4.  Comment out the `print` statements in `foo()` and `bar()` and run
it again.  What happens now?

ANSWER: The code behaves the same way.

5.  Add comments to the code to explain these experiments and the results,
then check the code in to the repo.

Moral: Don't return pointers to stack allocated data!


### Adder

Create a file named `adder.c` and write a program that allows the user to enter integers, one per line, until the user hits Control-D, which is the end-of-file (EOF) character.

It should convert the numbers from input strings to integers and store the integers in an array.  The program should produce appropriate error messages if the user enters something that exceeds the length of the input buffer, or can't be converted to an integer.  It should also produce an error message if the user enters more numbers than will fit in the array.

After the user enters Control-D, the program should add up the numbers in the array and print the result.  

Your program should be divided into at least two functions with well designed interfaces.

Optionally, the program should produce an error if the sum exceeds the largest integer that can be represented.

Hint: You will probably want to use two functions we haven't seen yet:

* strlen: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_strlen.htm)

* atoi: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_atoi.htm)

Before you use their functions, you need to `#include <string.h>`.
